REFERENCE.md, before:

# Reference
<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

**Classes**

* [`snmp`](#snmp): Manage the Net-SNMP and Net-SNMP trap daemon package, service, and
configuration.
* [`snmp::client`](#snmpclient): Manage the Net-SNMP client package and configuration.

**Defined types**

* [`snmp::snmpv3_user`](#snmpsnmpv3_user): Creates a SNMPv3 user with authentication and encryption paswords.

**Functions**

* [`snmp::snmpv3_usm_hash`](#snmpsnmpv3_usm_hash): snmpv3_usm_hash.rb --- Calculate SNMPv3 USM hash for a passphrase

## Classes

### snmp

Manage the Net-SNMP and Net-SNMP trap daemon package, service, and
configuration.

#### Examples

##### 

```puppet
class { 'snmp':
  com2sec       => [ 'notConfigUser default PassW0rd' ],
  manage_client => true,
}

# Only configure and run the snmptrap daemon:
class { 'snmp':
  ro_community        => 'SeCrEt',
  service_ensure      => 'stopped',
  trap_service_ensure => 'running',
  trap_handlers       => [
    'default /usr/bin/perl /usr/bin/traptoemail me@somewhere.local',
    'IF-MIB::linkDown /home/nba/bin/traps down',
  ],
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `snmp` class.

##### `agentaddress`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

An array of addresses, on which snmpd will listen for queries.

Default value: [ 'udp:127.0.0.1:161', 'udp6:[::1]:161' ]

##### `snmptrapdaddr`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

An array of addresses, on which snmptrapd will listen to receive incoming
SNMP notifications.

Default value: [ 'udp:127.0.0.1:162', 'udp6:[::1]:162' ]

##### `ro_community`

Data type: `Variant[Undef, String[1], Array[String[1]]]`

Read-only (RO) community string or array for agent and snmptrap daemon.

Default value: 'public'

##### `ro_community6`

Data type: `Variant[Undef, String[1], Array[String[1]]]`

Read-only (RO) community string or array for IPv6 agent.

Default value: 'public'

##### `rw_community`

Data type: `Variant[Undef, String[1], Array[String[1]]]`

Read-write (RW) community string or array agent.

Default value: `undef`

##### `rw_community6`

Data type: `Variant[Undef, String[1], Array[String[1]]]`

Read-write (RW) community string or array for IPv6 agent.

Default value: `undef`

##### `ro_network`

Data type: `Variant[Array, Stdlib::IP::Address::V4, Stdlib::IP::Address::V4::CIDR]`

Network that is allowed to RO query the daemon.  Can be string or array.

Default value: '127.0.0.1'

##### `ro_network6`

Data type: `Variant[Array, Stdlib::IP::Address::V6, Stdlib::IP::Address::V6::CIDR]`

Network that is allowed to RO query the daemon via IPv6.  Can be string or array.

Default value: '::1'

##### `rw_network`

Data type: `Variant[Array, Stdlib::IP::Address::V4, Stdlib::IP::Address::V4::CIDR]`

Network that is allowed to RW query the daemon.  Can be string or array.

Default value: '127.0.0.1'

##### `rw_network6`

Data type: `Variant[Array, Stdlib::IP::Address::V6, Stdlib::IP::Address::V6::CIDR]`

Network that is allowed to RW query the daemon via IPv6.  Can be string or array.

Default value: '::1'

##### `contact`

Data type: `String[1]`

Responsible person for the SNMP system.

Default value: 'Unknown'

##### `location`

Data type: `String[1]`

Location of the SNMP system.

Default value: 'Unknown'

##### `sysname`

Data type: `String[1]`

Name of the system (hostname).

Default value: $facts['networking']['fqdn']

##### `services`

Data type: `Integer`

For a host system, a good value is 72 (application + end-to-end layers).

Default value: 72

##### `com2sec`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

An array of VACM com2sec mappings.
Must provide SECNAME, SOURCE and COMMUNITY.
See http://www.net-snmp.org/docs/man/snmpd.conf.html#lbAL for details.

Default value: [ 'notConfigUser  default       public' ]

##### `com2sec6`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

An array of VACM com2sec6 mappings.
Must provide SECNAME, SOURCE and COMMUNITY.
See http://www.net-snmp.org/docs/man/snmpd.conf.html#lbAL for details.

Default value: [ 'notConfigUser  default       public' ]

##### `groups`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

An array of VACM group mappings.
Must provide GROUP, <v1|v2c|usm|tsm|ksm>, SECNAME.
See http://www.net-snmp.org/docs/man/snmpd.conf.html#lbAL for details.

Default value: [
    'notConfigGroup v1            notConfigUser',
    'notConfigGroup v2c           notConfigUser',
  ]

##### `views`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

An array of views that are available to query.
Must provide VNAME, TYPE, OID, and [MASK].
See http://www.net-snmp.org/docs/man/snmpd.conf.html#lbAL for details.

Default value: [
    'systemview    included   .1.3.6.1.2.1.1',
    'systemview    included   .1.3.6.1.2.1.25.1.1',
  ]

##### `accesses`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

An array of access controls that are available to query.
Must provide GROUP, CONTEXT, <any|v1|v2c|usm|tsm|ksm>, LEVEL, PREFX, READ, WRITE, and NOTIFY.
See http://www.net-snmp.org/docs/man/snmpd.conf.html#lbAL for details.

Default value: [
    'notConfigGroup ""      any       noauth    exact  systemview none  none',
  ]

##### `dlmod`

Data type: `Optional[Array[String[1]]]`

Array of dlmod lines to add to the snmpd.conf file.
Must provide NAME and PATH (ex. "cmaX /usr/lib64/libcmaX64.so").
See http://www.net-snmp.org/docs/man/snmpd.conf.html#lbBD for details.

Default value: `undef`

##### `extends`

Data type: `Optional[Array[String[1]]]`

Array of extend lines to add to the snmpd.conf file.
Must provide NAME, PROG and ARG.
See http://www.net-snmp.org/docs/man/snmpd.conf.html#lbBA for details.

Default value: `undef`

##### `snmpd_config`

Data type: `Optional[Array[String[1]]]`

Safety valve.  Array of lines to add to the snmpd.conf file.
See http://www.net-snmp.org/docs/man/snmpd.conf.html for all options.

Default value: `undef`

##### `disable_authorization`

Data type: `Enum['yes','no']`

Disable all access control checks.

Default value: 'no'

##### `do_not_log_traps`

Data type: `Enum['yes','no']`

Disable the logging of notifications altogether.

Default value: 'no'

##### `do_not_log_tcpwrappers`

Data type: `Enum['yes','no']`

Disable the logging of tcpwrappers messages, e.g. "Connection from UDP: " messages in syslog.

Default value: 'no'

##### `trap_handlers`

Data type: `Optional[Array[String[1]]]`

An array of programs to invoke on receipt of traps.
Must provide OID and PROGRAM (ex. "IF-MIB::linkDown /bin/traps down").
See http://www.net-snmp.org/docs/man/snmptrapd.conf.html#lbAI for details.

Default value: `undef`

##### `trap_forwards`

Data type: `Optional[Array[String[1]]]`

An array of destinations to send to on receipt of traps.
Must provide OID and DESTINATION (ex. "IF-MIB::linkUp udp:1.2.3.5:162").
See http://www.net-snmp.org/docs/man/snmptrapd.conf.html#lbAI for details.

Default value: `undef`

##### `snmptrapd_config`

Data type: `Optional[Array[String[1]]]`

Safety valve.  Array of lines to add to the snmptrapd.conf file.
See http://www.net-snmp.org/docs/man/snmptrapd.conf.html for all options.

Default value: `undef`

##### `manage_client`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to install the Net-SNMP client package.

Default value: `false`

##### `snmp_config`

Data type: `Optional[Array[String[1]]]`

Safety valve.  Array of lines to add to the client's global snmp.conf file.
See http://www.net-snmp.org/docs/man/snmp.conf.html for all options.

Default value: `undef`

##### `ensure`

Data type: `Enum['present','absent']`

Ensure if present or absent.

Default value: 'present'

##### `autoupgrade`

Data type: `Boolean`

Upgrade package automatically, if there is a newer version.

Default value: `false`

##### `package_name`

Data type: `String[1]`

Name of the package. Only set this if your platform is not supported or you know what you are doing.

Default value: 'net-snmp'

##### `snmptrapd_package_name`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Name of the package provinding snmptrapd. Only set this if your platform is not supported or you know what you are doing.

Default value: `undef`

##### `snmpd_options`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Commandline options passed to snmpd via init script.

Default value: `undef`

##### `sysconfig`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

Path to sysconfig file for snmpd.

Default value: '/etc/sysconfig/snmpd'

##### `trap_sysconfig`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

Path to sysconfig file for snmptrapd.

Default value: '/etc/sysconfig/snmptrapd'

##### `trap_service_config`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

Path to snmptrapd.conf.

Default value: '/etc/snmp/snmptrapd.conf'

##### `service_config`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

Path to snmpd.conf.

Default value: '/etc/snmp/snmpd.conf'

##### `service_config_perms`

Data type: `Stdlib::Filemode`

Set permissions for the service configuration file.

Default value: '0600'

##### `service_config_dir_path`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

Path to services configuration directory.

Default value: '/usr/local/etc/snmp'

##### `service_config_dir_owner`

Data type: `String[1]`

Owner for the service configuration directory.

Default value: 'root'

##### `service_config_dir_group`

Data type: `String[1]`

Set group ownership for the service configuration directory.

Default value: 'root'

##### `service_config_dir_perms`

Data type: `String[1]`

Mode of the service configuration directory.

Default value: '0755'

##### `service_ensure`

Data type: `Stdlib::Ensure::Service`

Ensure if service is running or stopped.

Default value: 'running'

##### `service_name`

Data type: `String[1]`

Name of SNMP service. Only set this if your platform is not supported or you know what you are doing.

Default value: 'snmpd'

##### `service_enable`

Data type: `Boolean`

Start service at boot.

Default value: `true`

##### `service_hasstatus`

Data type: `Boolean`

Service has status command.

Default value: `true`

##### `service_hasrestart`

Data type: `Boolean`

Service has restart command.

Default value: `true`

##### `snmptrapd_options`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Commandline options passed to snmptrapd via init script.

Default value: `undef`

##### `trap_service_ensure`

Data type: `Stdlib::Ensure::Service`

Ensure if service is running or stopped.

Default value: 'stopped'

##### `trap_service_name`

Data type: `String[1]`

Name of SNMP service
Only set this if your platform is not supported or you know what you are doing.

Default value: 'snmptrapd'

##### `trap_service_enable`

Data type: `Boolean`

Start service at boot.

Default value: `false`

##### `trap_service_hasstatus`

Data type: `Boolean`

Service has status command.

Default value: `true`

##### `trap_service_hasrestart`

Data type: `Boolean`

Service has restart command.

Default value: `true`

##### `openmanage_enable`

Data type: `Boolean`

Adds the smuxpeer directive to the snmpd.conf file to allow net-snmp to talk with Dell's OpenManage

Default value: `false`

##### `master`

Data type: `Boolean`

Include the *master* option to enable AgentX registrations.

Default value: `false`

##### `agentx_perms`

Data type: `Optional[Stdlib::Filemode]`

Defines the permissions and ownership of the AgentX Unix Domain socket.

Default value: `undef`

##### `agentx_ping_interval`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

This will make the subagent try and reconnect every NUM seconds to the
master if it ever becomes (or starts) disconnected.

Default value: `undef`

##### `agentx_socket`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Defines the address the master agent listens at, or the subagent should connect to.

Default value: `undef`

##### `agentx_timeout`

Data type: `Integer[0]`

Defines the timeout period (NUM seconds) for an AgentX request.

Default value: 1

##### `agentx_retries`

Data type: `Integer[0]`

Defines the number of retries for an AgentX request.

Default value: 5

##### `snmpv2_enable`

Data type: `Boolean`

Disable com2sec, group, and access in snmpd.conf

Default value: `true`

##### `var_net_snmp`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

Path to snmp's var directory.

Default value: '/var/lib/net-snmp'

##### `varnetsnmp_perms`

Data type: `Stdlib::Filemode`

Mode of `var_net_snmp` directory.

Default value: '0755'

##### `varnetsnmp_owner`

Data type: `String[1]`

Owner of `var_net_snmp` directory.

Default value: 'root'

##### `varnetsnmp_group`

Data type: `String[1]`

Group of `var_net_snmp` directory.

Default value: 'root'

### snmp::client

Manage the Net-SNMP client package and configuration.

#### Examples

##### 

```puppet
class { 'snmp::client':
  snmp_config => [
    'defVersion 2c',
    'defCommunity public',
  ],
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `snmp::client` class.

##### `ensure`

Data type: `Enum['present', 'absent']`

Ensure if present or absent.

Default value: 'present'

##### `snmp_config`

Data type: `Optional[Array[String[1]]]`

Array of lines to add to the client's global snmp.conf file.
See http://www.net-snmp.org/docs/man/snmp.conf.html for all options.

Default value: `undef`

##### `autoupgrade`

Data type: `Boolean`

Upgrade package automatically, if there is a newer version.

Default value: `false`

##### `package_name`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Name of the package.
Only set this if your platform is not supported or you know what you are
doing.

Default value: `undef`

##### `client_config`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

Path to `snmp.conf`.

Default value: '/etc/snmp/snmp.conf'

## Defined types

### snmp::snmpv3_user

Creates a SNMPv3 user with authentication and encryption paswords.

#### Examples

##### 

```puppet
snmp::snmpv3_user { 'myuser':
  authtype => 'MD5',
  authpass => '1234auth',
  privpass => '5678priv',
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `snmp::snmpv3_user` defined type.

##### `authpass`

Data type: `String[8]`

Authentication password for the user.

##### `authtype`

Data type: `Enum['SHA','MD5']`

Authentication type for the user.  SHA or MD5

Default value: 'SHA'

##### `privpass`

Data type: `Optional[String[8]]`

Encryption password for the user.

Default value: `undef`

##### `privtype`

Data type: `Enum['AES','DES']`

Encryption type for the user.  AES or DES

Default value: 'AES'

##### `daemon`

Data type: `Enum['snmpd','snmptrapd']`

Which daemon file in which to write the user.  snmpd or snmptrapd

Default value: 'snmpd'

## Functions

### snmp::snmpv3_usm_hash

Type: Ruby 4.x API

snmpv3_usm_hash.rb --- Calculate SNMPv3 USM hash for a passphrase

#### `snmp::snmpv3_usm_hash(String $authtype, String $engine, String $passphrase, Optional[Integer] $bits)`

snmpv3_usm_hash.rb --- Calculate SNMPv3 USM hash for a passphrase

Returns: `String` The calculated hash.

##### `authtype`

Data type: `String`

The authentication type to calculate. This must either be

##### `engine`

Data type: `String`

The SNMP engine used. The value is used as salt and must

##### `passphrase`

Data type: `String`

The passphrase for which the hash is calculated.

##### `bits`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

The number of bits the result should be truncated to if it is

Commit message:

Simpify traditional access control parameters
Instead of allowing `undef`, plain strings or arrays of strings, just
allow arrays of strings.  Parameters that previously defaulted to `undef`
now default to empty arrays.

This allows us to simplify the templates and we no longer have
`Optional` parameters that have default values set. (`ro_community`
defaulting to `'public'` but allowing `undef` didn't make much sense
previously.)

View-based Access Control Model (VACM) is still recommended, but
traditional access control is no longer deprecated.

REFERENCE.md, after:

# Reference
<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

**Classes**

* [`snmp`](#snmp): Manage the Net-SNMP and Net-SNMP trap daemon package, service, and
configuration.
* [`snmp::client`](#snmpclient): Manage the Net-SNMP client package and configuration.

**Defined types**

* [`snmp::snmpv3_user`](#snmpsnmpv3_user): Creates a SNMPv3 user with authentication and encryption paswords.

**Functions**

* [`snmp::snmpv3_usm_hash`](#snmpsnmpv3_usm_hash): snmpv3_usm_hash.rb --- Calculate SNMPv3 USM hash for a passphrase

## Classes

### snmp

Manage the Net-SNMP and Net-SNMP trap daemon package, service, and
configuration.

#### Examples

##### 

```puppet
class { 'snmp':
  com2sec       => [ 'notConfigUser default PassW0rd' ],
  manage_client => true,
}

# Only configure and run the snmptrap daemon:
class { 'snmp':
  ro_community        => ['SeCrEt'],
  service_ensure      => 'stopped',
  trap_service_ensure => 'running',
  trap_handlers       => [
    'default /usr/bin/perl /usr/bin/traptoemail me@somewhere.local',
    'IF-MIB::linkDown /home/nba/bin/traps down',
  ],
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `snmp` class.

##### `agentaddress`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

An array of addresses, on which snmpd will listen for queries.

Default value: [ 'udp:127.0.0.1:161', 'udp6:[::1]:161' ]

##### `snmptrapdaddr`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

An array of addresses, on which snmptrapd will listen to receive incoming
SNMP notifications.

Default value: [ 'udp:127.0.0.1:162', 'udp6:[::1]:162' ]

##### `ro_community`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

Read-only (RO) array of community strings for agent and snmptrap daemon.

Default value: ['public']

##### `ro_community6`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

Read-only (RO) array of community strings for IPv6 agent.

Default value: ['public']

##### `rw_community`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

Read-write (RW) array of community strings for agent.

Default value: []

##### `rw_community6`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

Read-write (RW) array of community strings for IPv6 agent.

Default value: []

##### `ro_network`

Data type: `Array[Stdlib::IP::Address::V4]`

Networks that are allowed to RO query the daemon.

Default value: ['127.0.0.1']

##### `ro_network6`

Data type: `Array[Stdlib::IP::Address::V6]`

Networks that are allowed to RO query the daemon via IPv6.

Default value: ['::1']

##### `rw_network`

Data type: `Array[Stdlib::IP::Address::V4]`

Networks that are allowed to RW query the daemon.

Default value: ['127.0.0.1']

##### `rw_network6`

Data type: `Array[Stdlib::IP::Address::V6]`

Networks that are allowed to RW query the daemon via IPv6.

Default value: ['::1']

##### `contact`

Data type: `String[1]`

Responsible person for the SNMP system.

Default value: 'Unknown'

##### `location`

Data type: `String[1]`

Location of the SNMP system.

Default value: 'Unknown'

##### `sysname`

Data type: `String[1]`

Name of the system (hostname).

Default value: $facts['networking']['fqdn']

##### `services`

Data type: `Integer`

For a host system, a good value is 72 (application + end-to-end layers).

Default value: 72

##### `com2sec`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

An array of VACM com2sec mappings.
Must provide SECNAME, SOURCE and COMMUNITY.
See http://www.net-snmp.org/docs/man/snmpd.conf.html#lbAL for details.

Default value: [ 'notConfigUser  default       public' ]

##### `com2sec6`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

An array of VACM com2sec6 mappings.
Must provide SECNAME, SOURCE and COMMUNITY.
See http://www.net-snmp.org/docs/man/snmpd.conf.html#lbAL for details.

Default value: [ 'notConfigUser  default       public' ]

##### `groups`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

An array of VACM group mappings.
Must provide GROUP, <v1|v2c|usm|tsm|ksm>, SECNAME.
See http://www.net-snmp.org/docs/man/snmpd.conf.html#lbAL for details.

Default value: [
    'notConfigGroup v1            notConfigUser',
    'notConfigGroup v2c           notConfigUser',
  ]

##### `views`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

An array of views that are available to query.
Must provide VNAME, TYPE, OID, and [MASK].
See http://www.net-snmp.org/docs/man/snmpd.conf.html#lbAL for details.

Default value: [
    'systemview    included   .1.3.6.1.2.1.1',
    'systemview    included   .1.3.6.1.2.1.25.1.1',
  ]

##### `accesses`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

An array of access controls that are available to query.
Must provide GROUP, CONTEXT, <any|v1|v2c|usm|tsm|ksm>, LEVEL, PREFX, READ, WRITE, and NOTIFY.
See http://www.net-snmp.org/docs/man/snmpd.conf.html#lbAL for details.

Default value: [
    'notConfigGroup ""      any       noauth    exact  systemview none  none',
  ]

##### `dlmod`

Data type: `Optional[Array[String[1]]]`

Array of dlmod lines to add to the snmpd.conf file.
Must provide NAME and PATH (ex. "cmaX /usr/lib64/libcmaX64.so").
See http://www.net-snmp.org/docs/man/snmpd.conf.html#lbBD for details.

Default value: `undef`

##### `extends`

Data type: `Optional[Array[String[1]]]`

Array of extend lines to add to the snmpd.conf file.
Must provide NAME, PROG and ARG.
See http://www.net-snmp.org/docs/man/snmpd.conf.html#lbBA for details.

Default value: `undef`

##### `snmpd_config`

Data type: `Optional[Array[String[1]]]`

Safety valve.  Array of lines to add to the snmpd.conf file.
See http://www.net-snmp.org/docs/man/snmpd.conf.html for all options.

Default value: `undef`

##### `disable_authorization`

Data type: `Enum['yes','no']`

Disable all access control checks.

Default value: 'no'

##### `do_not_log_traps`

Data type: `Enum['yes','no']`

Disable the logging of notifications altogether.

Default value: 'no'

##### `do_not_log_tcpwrappers`

Data type: `Enum['yes','no']`

Disable the logging of tcpwrappers messages, e.g. "Connection from UDP: " messages in syslog.

Default value: 'no'

##### `trap_handlers`

Data type: `Optional[Array[String[1]]]`

An array of programs to invoke on receipt of traps.
Must provide OID and PROGRAM (ex. "IF-MIB::linkDown /bin/traps down").
See http://www.net-snmp.org/docs/man/snmptrapd.conf.html#lbAI for details.

Default value: `undef`

##### `trap_forwards`

Data type: `Optional[Array[String[1]]]`

An array of destinations to send to on receipt of traps.
Must provide OID and DESTINATION (ex. "IF-MIB::linkUp udp:1.2.3.5:162").
See http://www.net-snmp.org/docs/man/snmptrapd.conf.html#lbAI for details.

Default value: `undef`

##### `snmptrapd_config`

Data type: `Optional[Array[String[1]]]`

Safety valve.  Array of lines to add to the snmptrapd.conf file.
See http://www.net-snmp.org/docs/man/snmptrapd.conf.html for all options.

Default value: `undef`

##### `manage_client`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to install the Net-SNMP client package.

Default value: `false`

##### `snmp_config`

Data type: `Optional[Array[String[1]]]`

Safety valve.  Array of lines to add to the client's global snmp.conf file.
See http://www.net-snmp.org/docs/man/snmp.conf.html for all options.

Default value: `undef`

##### `ensure`

Data type: `Enum['present','absent']`

Ensure if present or absent.

Default value: 'present'

##### `autoupgrade`

Data type: `Boolean`

Upgrade package automatically, if there is a newer version.

Default value: `false`

##### `package_name`

Data type: `String[1]`

Name of the package. Only set this if your platform is not supported or you know what you are doing.

Default value: 'net-snmp'

##### `snmptrapd_package_name`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Name of the package provinding snmptrapd. Only set this if your platform is not supported or you know what you are doing.

Default value: `undef`

##### `snmpd_options`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Commandline options passed to snmpd via init script.

Default value: `undef`

##### `sysconfig`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

Path to sysconfig file for snmpd.

Default value: '/etc/sysconfig/snmpd'

##### `trap_sysconfig`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

Path to sysconfig file for snmptrapd.

Default value: '/etc/sysconfig/snmptrapd'

##### `trap_service_config`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

Path to snmptrapd.conf.

Default value: '/etc/snmp/snmptrapd.conf'

##### `service_config`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

Path to snmpd.conf.

Default value: '/etc/snmp/snmpd.conf'

##### `service_config_perms`

Data type: `Stdlib::Filemode`

Set permissions for the service configuration file.

Default value: '0600'

##### `service_config_dir_path`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

Path to services configuration directory.

Default value: '/usr/local/etc/snmp'

##### `service_config_dir_owner`

Data type: `String[1]`

Owner for the service configuration directory.

Default value: 'root'

##### `service_config_dir_group`

Data type: `String[1]`

Set group ownership for the service configuration directory.

Default value: 'root'

##### `service_config_dir_perms`

Data type: `String[1]`

Mode of the service configuration directory.

Default value: '0755'

##### `service_ensure`

Data type: `Stdlib::Ensure::Service`

Ensure if service is running or stopped.

Default value: 'running'

##### `service_name`

Data type: `String[1]`

Name of SNMP service. Only set this if your platform is not supported or you know what you are doing.

Default value: 'snmpd'

##### `service_enable`

Data type: `Boolean`

Start service at boot.

Default value: `true`

##### `service_hasstatus`

Data type: `Boolean`

Service has status command.

Default value: `true`

##### `service_hasrestart`

Data type: `Boolean`

Service has restart command.

Default value: `true`

##### `snmptrapd_options`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Commandline options passed to snmptrapd via init script.

Default value: `undef`

##### `trap_service_ensure`

Data type: `Stdlib::Ensure::Service`

Ensure if service is running or stopped.

Default value: 'stopped'

##### `trap_service_name`

Data type: `String[1]`

Name of SNMP service
Only set this if your platform is not supported or you know what you are doing.

Default value: 'snmptrapd'

##### `trap_service_enable`

Data type: `Boolean`

Start service at boot.

Default value: `false`

##### `trap_service_hasstatus`

Data type: `Boolean`

Service has status command.

Default value: `true`

##### `trap_service_hasrestart`

Data type: `Boolean`

Service has restart command.

Default value: `true`

##### `openmanage_enable`

Data type: `Boolean`

Adds the smuxpeer directive to the snmpd.conf file to allow net-snmp to talk with Dell's OpenManage

Default value: `false`

##### `master`

Data type: `Boolean`

Include the *master* option to enable AgentX registrations.

Default value: `false`

##### `agentx_perms`

Data type: `Optional[Stdlib::Filemode]`

Defines the permissions and ownership of the AgentX Unix Domain socket.

Default value: `undef`

##### `agentx_ping_interval`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

This will make the subagent try and reconnect every NUM seconds to the
master if it ever becomes (or starts) disconnected.

Default value: `undef`

##### `agentx_socket`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Defines the address the master agent listens at, or the subagent should connect to.

Default value: `undef`

##### `agentx_timeout`

Data type: `Integer[0]`

Defines the timeout period (NUM seconds) for an AgentX request.

Default value: 1

##### `agentx_retries`

Data type: `Integer[0]`

Defines the number of retries for an AgentX request.

Default value: 5

##### `snmpv2_enable`

Data type: `Boolean`

Disable com2sec, group, and access in snmpd.conf

Default value: `true`

##### `var_net_snmp`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

Path to snmp's var directory.

Default value: '/var/lib/net-snmp'

##### `varnetsnmp_perms`

Data type: `Stdlib::Filemode`

Mode of `var_net_snmp` directory.

Default value: '0755'

##### `varnetsnmp_owner`

Data type: `String[1]`

Owner of `var_net_snmp` directory.

Default value: 'root'

##### `varnetsnmp_group`

Data type: `String[1]`

Group of `var_net_snmp` directory.

Default value: 'root'

### snmp::client

Manage the Net-SNMP client package and configuration.

#### Examples

##### 

```puppet
class { 'snmp::client':
  snmp_config => [
    'defVersion 2c',
    'defCommunity public',
  ],
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `snmp::client` class.

##### `ensure`

Data type: `Enum['present', 'absent']`

Ensure if present or absent.

Default value: 'present'

##### `snmp_config`

Data type: `Optional[Array[String[1]]]`

Array of lines to add to the client's global snmp.conf file.
See http://www.net-snmp.org/docs/man/snmp.conf.html for all options.

Default value: `undef`

##### `autoupgrade`

Data type: `Boolean`

Upgrade package automatically, if there is a newer version.

Default value: `false`

##### `package_name`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Name of the package.
Only set this if your platform is not supported or you know what you are
doing.

Default value: `undef`

##### `client_config`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

Path to `snmp.conf`.

Default value: '/etc/snmp/snmp.conf'

## Defined types

### snmp::snmpv3_user

Creates a SNMPv3 user with authentication and encryption paswords.

#### Examples

##### 

```puppet
snmp::snmpv3_user { 'myuser':
  authtype => 'MD5',
  authpass => '1234auth',
  privpass => '5678priv',
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `snmp::snmpv3_user` defined type.

##### `authpass`

Data type: `String[8]`

Authentication password for the user.

##### `authtype`

Data type: `Enum['SHA','MD5']`

Authentication type for the user.  SHA or MD5

Default value: 'SHA'

##### `privpass`

Data type: `Optional[String[8]]`

Encryption password for the user.

Default value: `undef`

##### `privtype`

Data type: `Enum['AES','DES']`

Encryption type for the user.  AES or DES

Default value: 'AES'

##### `daemon`

Data type: `Enum['snmpd','snmptrapd']`

Which daemon file in which to write the user.  snmpd or snmptrapd

Default value: 'snmpd'

## Functions

### snmp::snmpv3_usm_hash

Type: Ruby 4.x API

snmpv3_usm_hash.rb --- Calculate SNMPv3 USM hash for a passphrase

#### `snmp::snmpv3_usm_hash(String $authtype, String $engine, String $passphrase, Optional[Integer] $bits)`

snmpv3_usm_hash.rb --- Calculate SNMPv3 USM hash for a passphrase

Returns: `String` The calculated hash.

##### `authtype`

Data type: `String`

The authentication type to calculate. This must either be

##### `engine`

Data type: `String`

The SNMP engine used. The value is used as salt and must

##### `passphrase`

Data type: `String`

The passphrase for which the hash is calculated.

##### `bits`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

The number of bits the result should be truncated to if it is
